resources/README.md, before:

# Flyway

Flyway is a database migration tool... but what does that mean? How does it work? To get an overview, first read their [documentation](https://documentation.red-gate.com/flyway/flyway-cli-and-api/welcome-to-flyway)

For the example below (and during my process to investigate Vegbank), I have chosen to use the Flyway Command Line App. You can download it through their website [here](https://documentation.red-gate.com/fd/command-line-184127404.html)

For more information about the Flyway [CLI](https://github.com/flyway/flywaydb.org/blob/gh-pages/documentation/usage/commandline/index.md#tab-community)

## How does it work

The command looks simple, `flyway migrate`, and it is now that you're reading this `README.md` document. To get flyway working, you must provide it with a configuration file.

Inside of this configuration file are key-value pairs that represent the credentials you need to access the database you want to migrate to, or re-initialize. See example below:

```
// flyway.conf
flyway.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/vegbank
flyway.user=vegbank
flyway.password=vegbank
flyway.locations=filesystem:/migrations
```

Flyway will take these credentials, access your database, then automatically apply all the individual .sql files you defined in the locations folder (ex. /migrations)
 - **IMPORTANT** These .sql files must be named according to Flyway conventions:

   ```
   V1.0__desc_of_content.sql
   V1.1__desc_of_content.sql
   V1.2__desc_of_content.sql
   ...
   ```
   - For more information, see: https://documentation.red-gate.com/fd/migrations-184127470.html

That's it! In summary, set-up your configuration file, name your migration files appropriately, and run `flyway migrate`.
- Depending on your machine, you may need to add flyway to your path.
- I am on MacOS, and I did this with the following command to make flyway executable
    ```
    sudo ln -s `pwd`/flyway-10.17.0/flyway /usr/local/bin
    ```
- During development, I placed my configuration file inside of where I extracted flyway, example:
    ```
    // ~/Users/doumok/Code/flyway-10.17.0/conf/flyway.conf
    flyway.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/vegbank
    flyway.user=vegbank
    flyway.password=vegbank
    flyway.locations=filesystem:/Users/doumok/Code/vegbank2/migrations
    ```
- I also set-up postgres with Docker, thanks to Matthew (@artntek)'s handy code:
    ```
    docker run --name vegbank -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=vegbank -e POSTGRES_DB=vegbank -e POSTGRES_USER=vegbank -e PGDATA=/tmp/postgresql/data -e POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=password -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:16
    ```

## Additional Info

Section to be filled out added with findings as progress is made

Commit message:

Create new migration file 'V1.12__add_constraints.sql' where alter table commands were moved from 'V1.0__vegbank.sql'

resources/README.md, after:

# Flyway

Flyway is a database migration tool... but what does that mean? How does it work? To get an overview, first read their [documentation](https://documentation.red-gate.com/flyway/flyway-cli-and-api/welcome-to-flyway)

For the example below (and during my process to investigate Vegbank), I have chosen to use the Flyway Command Line App. You can download it through their website [here](https://documentation.red-gate.com/fd/command-line-184127404.html)

For more information about the Flyway [CLI](https://github.com/flyway/flywaydb.org/blob/gh-pages/documentation/usage/commandline/index.md#tab-community)

## How does it work

The command looks simple, `flyway migrate`, and it is now that you're reading this `README.md` document. To get flyway working, you must provide it with a configuration file.

Inside of this configuration file are key-value pairs that represent the credentials you need to access the database you want to migrate to, or re-initialize. See example below:

```
// flyway.conf
flyway.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/vegbank
flyway.user=vegbank
flyway.password=vegbank
flyway.locations=filesystem:/migrations
```

Flyway will take these credentials, access your database, then automatically apply all the individual .sql files you defined in the locations folder (ex. /migrations)
 - **IMPORTANT** These .sql files must be named according to Flyway conventions:

   ```
   V1.0__desc_of_content.sql
   V1.1__desc_of_content.sql
   V1.2__desc_of_content.sql
   ...
   ```
   - For more information, see: https://documentation.red-gate.com/fd/migrations-184127470.html

That's it! In summary, set-up your configuration file, name your migration files appropriately, and run `flyway migrate`.
- Depending on your machine, you may need to add flyway to your path.
- I am on MacOS, and I did this with the following command to make flyway executable
    ```
    sudo ln -s `pwd`/flyway-10.17.0/flyway /usr/local/bin
    ```
- During development, I placed my configuration file inside of where I extracted flyway, example:
    ```
    // ~/Users/doumok/Code/flyway-10.17.0/conf/flyway.conf
    flyway.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/vegbank
    flyway.user=vegbank
    flyway.password=vegbank
    flyway.locations=filesystem:/Users/doumok/Code/vegbank2/migrations
    ```
- I also set-up postgres with Docker, thanks to Matthew (@artntek)'s handy code:
    ```
    docker run --name vegbank -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=vegbank -e POSTGRES_DB=vegbank -e POSTGRES_USER=vegbank -e PGDATA=/tmp/postgresql/data -e POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=password -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:16
    ```
    - To access this instance locally, you can connect like such:
    ```
    psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U vegbank -d vegbank
    ```

## Additional Info

Section to be filled out added with findings as progress is made
