helm/backup/README.md, before:

# Introduction

The vegbank DB will be backed up using the `cnpg` `ScheduledBackUp` custom resource. To learn more about this, view our cnpg operator documentation [here](https://github.com/DataONEorg/k8s-cluster/blob/main/operators/postgres/postgres.md#database-backups).

# Example Disaster Scenario (Cumbersome, but it works)

Scenario - a disaster occurs and we have literally nothing but a physical directory of the `postgres` data that can be found from Nick's latest folder backup.

**Step 1: Copy the data folder to your local directory and navigate to it**

To get the `vegbank` db back up and running, we will first copy that postgres data folder to our local directory and navigate to it.
```sh
doumok@Dou-NCEAS-MBP14.local:~ $ cd /Code/testing/pgrecoverytesting/pgdata
```

Now, we modify the following settings because the setup for `cnpg` does not match what we are trying to achieve with a docker instance. 
- Adjust the log directory and create a `log` directory in your `pgdata` folder - or set this folder to another location of your choice. You can choose a new `log_filename` if you desire it
  ```sh
  # custom.conf
  ...
  log_directory = './log'
  log_filename
  ...
  ```or a local docker instance
  ```sh
  # custom.conf
  ...
  # ssl = 'on'
  # ssl_ca_file = '/controller/certificates/client-ca.crt'
  # ssl_cert_file = '/controller/certificates/server.crt'
  # ssl_key_file = '/controller/certificates/server.key'
  # ssl_max_protocol_version = 'TLSv1.3'
  # ssl_min_protocol_version = 'TLSv1.3'
  # unix_socket_directories = '/controller/run'
  ...
  ```

**Step 2: Get a running `postgres` instance via `docker`**
```sh
# Note: You must be in the data folder where you see `/base`, `global`, etc. when running this docker command.
## This will mount the current directory to the path you specified (ex. `/var/lib/postgresql/data`)
doumok@Dou-NCEAS-MBP14.local:~/Code/testing/pgrecoverytesting/pgdata $ docker run -it --rm -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -v $(pwd):/var/lib/postgresql/data -p 5432:5432 postgres:17
```


**Step 3: Test that it's working**
```sh
# Note: The password is the secret originally used in the kubernetes cluster (i.e. `vegbankdbcreds`).
## You can get the password from this secret by getting the yaml output and then base64 decoding it
### `kubectl get secrets vegbankdbcreds -o yaml`
### `echo 'the_hashed_password_' | base64 --decode
$ psql -h localhost -U vegbank

Password for user vegbank:
WARNING:  database "vegbank" has a collation version mismatch
DETAIL:  The database was created using collation version 153.14, but the operating system provides version 153.120.
HINT:  Rebuild all objects in this database that use the default collation and run ALTER DATABASE vegbank REFRESH COLLATION VERSION, or build PostgreSQL with the right library version.
psql (14.11 (Homebrew), server 17.5 (Debian 17.5-1.pgdg120+1))
WARNING: psql major version 14, server major version 17.
         Some psql features might not work.
Type "help" for help.

\dt
# This lists all the tables which shows a successful recovery
```

**Step 4: Restore the `cnpg` cluster**

From here, we can get a dump file, mount it to a path, and use the existing steps to launch a `cnpg` cluster.

```sh
$ pg_dump -h localhost -U vegbank -d vegbank -Fc -f vegbank_20251105.dump
```

Commit message:

Add empty 'scheduled-backup.yaml' and todo item in 'README.md' to document the process

helm/backup/README.md, after:

# Introduction

The vegbank DB will be backed up using the `cnpg` `ScheduledBackUp` custom resource. To learn more about this, view our cnpg operator documentation [here](https://github.com/DataONEorg/k8s-cluster/blob/main/operators/postgres/postgres.md#database-backups).

## Applying the 'scheduled-backup.yaml' resource

TODO

## Example Disaster Scenario (Cumbersome, but it works)

Scenario - a disaster occurs and we have literally nothing but a physical directory of the `postgres` data that can be found from Nick's latest folder backup.

**Step 1: Copy the data folder to your local directory and navigate to it**

To get the `vegbank` db back up and running, we will first copy that postgres data folder to our local directory and navigate to it.
```sh
doumok@Dou-NCEAS-MBP14.local:~ $ cd /Code/testing/pgrecoverytesting/pgdata
```

Now, we modify the following settings because the setup for `cnpg` does not match what we are trying to achieve with a docker instance. 
- Adjust the log directory and create a `log` directory in your `pgdata` folder - or set this folder to another location of your choice. You can choose a new `log_filename` if you desire it
  ```sh
  # custom.conf
  ...
  log_directory = './log'
  log_filename
  ...
  ```or a local docker instance
  ```sh
  # custom.conf
  ...
  # ssl = 'on'
  # ssl_ca_file = '/controller/certificates/client-ca.crt'
  # ssl_cert_file = '/controller/certificates/server.crt'
  # ssl_key_file = '/controller/certificates/server.key'
  # ssl_max_protocol_version = 'TLSv1.3'
  # ssl_min_protocol_version = 'TLSv1.3'
  # unix_socket_directories = '/controller/run'
  ...
  ```

**Step 2: Get a running `postgres` instance via `docker`**
```sh
# Note: You must be in the data folder where you see `/base`, `global`, etc. when running this docker command.
## This will mount the current directory to the path you specified (ex. `/var/lib/postgresql/data`)
doumok@Dou-NCEAS-MBP14.local:~/Code/testing/pgrecoverytesting/pgdata $ docker run -it --rm -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -v $(pwd):/var/lib/postgresql/data -p 5432:5432 postgres:17
```


**Step 3: Test that it's working**
```sh
# Note: The password is the secret originally used in the kubernetes cluster (i.e. `vegbankdbcreds`).
## You can get the password from this secret by getting the yaml output and then base64 decoding it
### `kubectl get secrets vegbankdbcreds -o yaml`
### `echo 'the_hashed_password_' | base64 --decode
$ psql -h localhost -U vegbank

Password for user vegbank:
WARNING:  database "vegbank" has a collation version mismatch
DETAIL:  The database was created using collation version 153.14, but the operating system provides version 153.120.
HINT:  Rebuild all objects in this database that use the default collation and run ALTER DATABASE vegbank REFRESH COLLATION VERSION, or build PostgreSQL with the right library version.
psql (14.11 (Homebrew), server 17.5 (Debian 17.5-1.pgdg120+1))
WARNING: psql major version 14, server major version 17.
         Some psql features might not work.
Type "help" for help.

\dt
# This lists all the tables which shows a successful recovery
```

**Step 4: Restore the `cnpg` cluster**

From here, we can get a dump file, mount it to a path, and use the existing steps to launch a `cnpg` cluster.

```sh
$ pg_dump -h localhost -U vegbank -d vegbank -Fc -f vegbank_20251105.dump
```
